Background


During the first portion of
our project, our group
identified a selection of
users. The five user groups
most closely affiliated with
YouTube were listed. These
included: YouTube staff;
executives, content creators,
advertisers, and general
users. General users were
defined as anyone whose
primary activity on the
platform was dominated by
activities outside of
uploading content. This
included viewing videos and
subscribing to creators.
YouTube users generate the
largest amount of data.
YouTube uses several “signal
tools” that allow users to
indicate their preferences and
opinions on content. Examples
of user signals include the
comments section and the likes
tool. User signal data is used
to shape YouTube’s larger
landscape and functions. For
example: YouTube’s trending
data homepage displays a
collection of the most popular
tables in a region. Videos are
selected based on likes,
shares, and view count. Each
user’s personal recommended
tab is created based on data
relating to previously watched
and liked videos. After
understanding how user signal
data affects YouTube’s
direction as a platform; our
group selected a project goal.
The project goal was as
defined: how do trends in user
interaction change over time?
For our project, we chose to
focus on two general areas.
The first area of focus is:
what types of content have
users interacted with, over
time? Areas of interest
include determining the most
popular creators at a given
time and comparing the
popularity of
longer/short-form content. The
second area of focus was
whether methods of user
interaction changed over time.
This included understanding
the frequency of usage of
tools such as the “comments”
and “likes” tools. Our queries
would help users understand
how factors relating to video
category; length; and
hashtags, would affect user
interactions. Our queries also
focused on understanding which
videos received the most
positive interaction. Some
changes were implemented
between the presentation and
the final submission.
Specifically, the table
creation scripts were altered,
and the queries were modified
to answer slightly different
questions. When the
presentation was drafted, the
number of tables and rows
utilized did not meet the
project requirements.
Adjustments were made due to a
larger amount of data.

	
Project 
--Contributions
/*
The team developed the GitHub repository
Tables creation and population was a team effort. 
Quinn covered questions 2, 4, 6, and 11.
Li covered questions 1, 3, and 9.
Sindhu covered questions 5, 8, 7, and 10.
We all discussed how we were going to distribute the work and which questions we were going to cover on this milestone.
*/



--Theme and Purpose /* The theme for our project is that we are researching YouTube statistics based how general users use YouTube which is defined as people whose activity on the site is dominated by activities outside of uploading content. This includes researching viewing numbers of videos, subscribing to content creators, etc. We also chose this because we thought it would give us the most amount of data to work with during our research and make tables and functions.

The purpose of this research is that we want to focus on and figure out how trends in user interaction have changed over time. Through gaining this research we hope to find trends in users interactions with content creators which we can use to help creators or company help better interact with their audience and possibly grow their audience to improve their channel or brand. */

--Instructions for code /* The way you can our code is to choose what information you would like to find based on what questions we've answered and called the procedure/function that covers that question which are named around which question they answer. Some of the functions/procedure will then run and pull the proper answers from the table we've made based on the Global YouTube Statistics we chose to use and some will also use cursors or triggers to help with this.

You will called the function/procedure by either:

If procedure- execute procedure_name;

If function- select function_name(parameter(s)) from table_name; */


Link to PDF of report:

file:///C:/Users/quinn/Downloads/CNIT%20372%20Final%20Report.pdf
