Background

	During the first portion of our project, our
	group identified a selection of users. The
	five user groups most closely affiliated with
	YouTube were listed. These included: YouTube
	staff; executives, content creators,
	advertisers , and general users. General users
	were defined as anyone whose primary activity
	on the platform was dominated by activities
	outside of uploading content. This included
	viewing videos and subscribing to creators.
	YouTube users generate the largest amount of
	data. YouTube makes use of several “signal
	tools” that allow users to indicate their
	preferences and opinions on content. Examples
	of user signals include the comments section
	and the likes tool. User signal data is used
	to shape YouTube’s larger landscape and
	functions. For example: YouTube’s trending
	data homepage displays a collection of the
	most popular tables in a given region. Videos
	are selected based on likes, shares, and view
	count. Each user’s personal recommended tab is
	created based on data relating to previously
	watched and liked videos. After understandi ng
	how user signal data affects YouTube’s
	direction as a platform; our group selected a
	project goal. The project goal was as defined:
	how do trends in user interaction change over
	time? For our project, we chose to focus on
	two general areas. The first area of focus is:
	what types of content have users interacted
	with, over time? Areas of interest include
	determining the most popular creators at a
	given time and comparing the popularity of
	longer/ short-form content. The second area of
	focus was have methods of user interaction
	changed over time. This included understandi
	ng the frequency of usage of tools such as the
	“comments” and “likes” tools. Our queries
	would help users understand how factors
	relating to video category; length; and
	hashtags, would affect user interaction s. Our
	queries also focused on understandi ng which
	videos received the most positive interaction
	. Some changes were implemented between the
	presentatio n and the final submission.
	Specificall y, the table creation scripts were
	altered, and the queries were modified to
	answer slightly different questions. When the
	presentatio n was drafted, the number of
	tables and rows utilized did not meet the
	project requirement s. Adjustments were made
	due to a larger amount of data. 
	
	
Project 
--Contributions
/*
The team developed the GitHub respritory, imported the data and developed the database table.
Table creation and population was a team effort. 
Quinn covered question 2, 4, 6.
Li covered questions 7, 9.
Sindhu covered questions  8, 7, 10, 11
We all discussed how we where going to distribute the work and which questions we were going to cover on this milestone.
*/
